# CPSC 8810: Deep Learning

This repository contains the code base for the CPSC8810: Deep Learning course homeworks. 

### Author

Adhiti Raman  
Ph.D. Candidate  
Department of Automotive Engineering  
Clemson University  
Greenville, ICAR campus  

## Folder Structre

```
Homework_1:
    \Part_1:
        HW1_Part1_DNN_func.py
        HW1_Part1_CNN_MNIST.py
    \Part2:
        HW1_Part2_DNN_MNIST_PCA.py
        HW1_Part2_DNN_func_pnorm.py
        HW1_Part2_DNN_MNIST_pnorm.py
        HW1_Part2_DNN_func_gradientzero.py
    \Part3:
        HW1_Part3_DNN_MNIST_randomlabels.py
        HW1_Part3_No_of_params_vs_generalization.py	
        HW1_Part3_DNN_MNIST_flattness_vs_generatlization_part1.py
        HW1_Part3_DNN_MNIST_flattness_vs_generatlization_part2.py
Homework_2:
    utilities.py
    S2VT_final_model.ipynb
    hw2_seq2seq.sh
    hw2_seq2seq_test.py
    output.txt
    LSTM_*
Homework_3:
    DCGAN_final.py
    WGAN_final.py
    DCGAN_final-differentmodel.py
    FID_IS_score_final.py
    \dcgan_final_pics
    \dcgan_final_pics_diffmodel1
    \wgan_final_pics   
```


## Code Breakdown

### Homework 1

#### Part 1

* HW1_Part1_DNN_func.py: This code deploys 3 DNN models on two functions. The code must be run for each function separately by commenting one out.

```
#y1 = np.cos(x1*x1) + x1 + np.random.normal(0, 0.1, size=x1.shape)
y1 = np.sin(2*x1) + x1 + np.random.normal(0, 0.1, size=x1.shape)
```

* HW1_Part1_CNN_MNIST.py: This code deploys 2 CNN and 1 DNN models on the MNIST dataset and plots loss and accuracy.

#### Part 2

* HW1_Part2_DNN_MNIST_PCA.py: This code deploys a DNN model on the MNIST dataset. It collects the weights for the entire model and just the first layer for every 3 epochs and plots the PCA of the same. 

* HW1_Part2_DNN_func_pnorm.py: This code deploys a DNN on a function and plots the gradient norm and loss.

* HW1_Part2_DNN_MNIST_pnorm.py: This code deploys a DNN on the MNIST dataset and plots the gradient norm and loss.

* HW1_Part2_DNN_func_gradientzero.py: This code plots the minimum ratio to loss for the DNN model when the gradient norms are close to zero. 

#### Part 3

* HW1_Part3_DNN_MNIST_randomlabels.py: This code trains a DNN model by randomly changing the values of labels assigned to the training batch. 

* HW1_Part3_No_of_params_vs_generalization.py: This code trains a DNN model ten times, each time by assigning an increasing number of nodes to the layers. 

* HW1_Part3_DNN_MNIST_flattness_vs_generatlization_part1.py: This code records the interpolation between the weights of two models and evaluates a third model designed on the interpolated weights. 

* HW1_Part3_DNN_MNIST_flattness_vs_generatlization_part2.py: This code records the loss, accuracy and sensitivity of 5 models -  a mix of CNNs and DNNs on the MNIST database. Each model plots need to be generated by commenting out the others. 

### Homework 2
* saved_model: in google drive: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1KuZdS08nLkAZ4Btv6aDyVjMfVRV41egG?usp=sharing

* S2VT_final_model.ipynb: This file is a python notebook that contains a working implementation of the S2VT. (I have included my failed attempts at building the multicell LSTM myself, but I couldnt't get them to run, so I borrowed the model from the AdrainHSu implementation (https://github.com/AdrianHsu/S2VT-seq2seq-video-captioning-attention)). 

* hw2_seq2seq_test.py: Python code that runs the test

* hw2_seq2seq.sh: bash script to run the test file. usage:

```
./hw2_seq2seq.sh 'MLDS_hw2_1_data/testing_label.json' "MLDS_hw2_1_data/testing_data/feat/{}.npy" 'testset_output.txt'
```
* output.txt: for calculating BLEU score. (best score: 0.551) Usage:

```
python3 MLDS_hw2_1_data/bleu_eval.py output.txt
```
### Homework 3

- DCGAN_final.py: The DCGAN model 
- WGAN_final.py: This code contains the WGAN model
- DCGAN_final-differentmodel.py: Thr DCGAN model without batch normalization and different hyper-parameters.
- FID_IS_score_final.py: This code calculates the FID and IS score. To select between WGAN and DCGAN uncomment the correct image path in the code. 
  

## Built With

* Tensorflow 1.15
* JupyterHub - Python 3


